---
layout: post-blog
category: blog
title: Duty of the audience; An ode for killing the book
permalink: /media/duty-of-the-audience/

---

Language is just one method for externalization of thought (something along the lines of what Chomsky argues). Limiting to words, however clever the rhetoric may be, is doing a disservice in externalizing ones internal thoughts, to then be interpreted and reflected upon by the audience. A more honest, truer to the internal thought, representation would be to combine the audio and visual faculties, which still allows enough room for interpretation. This forms the basis of my preference of something like motion picture over single mode of representations (extremely biased view, but indulge in my romanticism for a moment). Now remove other external factors (actors, designers, etc.) and leave just the director, something closer to an animated motion picture, where drawing, animating, sound design, et cetera; everything can, in principal, be done by a single creative entity, would be a truer representation of their internal thought. It is of course arguable if that is for the better or worse; the point is to have an enrichment via coming together of different perspectives, which can only be accomplished by deliberation between multiple entities who are manifestations of varied set of experiences. And in demanding for such variety, one cannot in principal disregard the single modes for multiple modes of representations.

Of course this isn't meant to disregard all other forms of media and externalizing internal thoughts, other than the ones being advocated for. There ought to be some beauty in the variety of outcomes one can get with fewer inputs (aren't poems beautiful), for example, in books or in music, which are also less of a burden to create for a single creative entity, as opposed to say something like a film. It is also possible to probe into mental faculties not directly associated with the input, courtesy of imagination and the power of visualization (and some fancy underlying neurobiology, exploiting the interconnected-ness of the brain), and in effect have a similar impact in terms of running amok with the trains of thoughts as would be achieved with a combination of inputs. And it is more a personal bias towards a varied expression (so say a film), reflecting my inability to visualize something that is just words. And in writing this, I am being extremely hypocritical, in the sense of trying to convey in words given my inability to understand the richness in them.

Thought, in whichever manner it is externalized, is not monolithic, and is a product of the set of experiences of the one expressing and the factors in vicinity in space and time affecting the impact of past experiences, and once externalized, it is up to the audience to interpret under similar conditions, they both are humans after all.  So there needs to be an emphasis on interpretation over intention, as the intention is effectively an interpretation of other interpretations! This calls for death of the author, but at the same time, not doing so by having in mind the social and mental context in which the work was created, as one cannot disregard their impact on the creative work. The onus is on the audience; they have a duty to fulfill.

So instead what I propose for is torturing the creators and killing the book. While the audience has a position of privilege, it is only until the point where they are the interpreter. What ought to follows is discussion and deliberation, the expression and coalescence of independent thought (of the audience) and of thought (of the creator), ad infinitum. In such a system of expression, this sort of meta thought of thought, starting with the first work itself, the creator is bound to have been part of the audience itself. It is also a duty to enrich the environment, promoting or inhibiting different aspects of what is expressed and allowing for the then enriched interpretations to be exchanged. It is now that you have turned the audience into creators with their role as interpreters and the subsequent expression of their interpretations; it is time for the audience to suffer. After all, it is their duty. But what is killing the book and why do it, one might ask. It is my view that one can disregard the narrative structure to a certain extent, as it does not have a whole lot to do with what is being said. The narrative structure is not what one ought to bring home, it is what lies in between in the lines, and what is implied or can be inferred without being explicitly stated, which is far more consequential. Of course to fully analyze some work one cannot fully disregard the "story" of the story is quite beautiful is it not!

This also does not mean that there is no place for _cheap mindless blockbusters_ (obviously a snide), where you can turn your brain off and enjoy all the flashiness on screen. But that's not what media is about, and that is exactly what it is devolving into. To truly appreciate the beauty, what is required is time, time spent interpreting, time spent reflecting. Instead a superficial experience, a mindless drudgery is what is promoted by the contemporary commercialized media, who want the audience to be nothing more than end points of the multitude of 'products' being offered. The audience isn't encouraged to contemplate on the work, as that is just seen as a waste of time and opportunity, which could be better utilized in consumption of a different product, as the 'corporate overlords' have to offer a lot more from where the last one came from! An audience as a gluttonous consumer is desired, and a lot of resources go into manufacturing them into what is desired.

So why not break away from the cycle of endless consumption, which exhaust your dopaminergic systems, leaving you unable to enjoy the little joys of life, sit back and relax in your armchair, pick up a book or an album or a movie, spend some time with it, encourage the ones around you to do the same, discuss what is being conveyed, or at least attempted to be, in the context of ones past experiences, and become creators yourselves.
